---
title: Localization
description: Picking & Tuning a localizer
---

There are many localizers for you to choose from. If you don't have any, you can use your drive motor encoders.

All localizers except for the OTOS localizer use a pose exponential method of localization, a way of turning movements from the robot's coordinate frame to the global coordinate frame.

## Localizers

**Select your localizer below and follow the instructions to tune it. Once your localizer is tuned, come back to this page.**

- [Drive Encoder Localizer](/en/tuning/localization/drive-encoder) - A localizer that uses the drive motor encoders.
- [Two Wheel Localizer](/en/tuning/localization/two-wheel) - A localizer that uses two odometry wheels.
- [Three Wheel Localizer](/en/tuning/localization/three-wheel) - A localizer that uses three odometry wheels.
- [Three Wheel + IMU Localizer](/en/tuning/localization/three-wheel-imu) - A localizer that uses three odometry wheels and an IMU.
- [Pinpoint Localizer](/en/tuning/localization/pinpoint) - A localizer that uses the goBILDA Pinpoint Odometry Computer.
- [OTOS Localizer](/en/tuning/localization/otos) - A localizer that uses the SparkFun Optical Tracking Odometry Sensor.

## Localization Test

After completing the tuning steps described in your localizer, you can test the accuracy of it.

1. Run the `Tuning` OpMode, then navigate under to `Localization Test`
2. On your computer, connect to your robot's Wi-Fi, and navigate to Panels or the FTC Dashboard. Panels is accessible at the ip address `192.168.43.1:8001` when connected to robot wifi.
3. You should see the robot's position on the field.
4. Observe the movements, make sure moving forward increases `x` and strafing left increases `y`.
